# SEMC Appion Refactor

This branch contains an attempt to refactor Appion.  The goals of this refactor are as follows:

1. Reduce the burden of maintaining Appion by switching from in-house libraries (`sinedon`, `numextension`, Appion's pipelining/orchestration functionality) to mainstream external libraries (e.g., `django`, `numpy` with `numba`, `joblib`, and `dask`) with extensive community and institutional support.
2. Remove unused functionality / clean up the codebase so that only what is being actively used is present.
3. Switch to the functional programming paradigm from the object-oriented programming paradigm currently in use.  This is a stylistic preference on my part, but it seems that there is a lot of complexity added by embracing inheritance, encapsulation, and polymorphism, and that the steps in our processing pipeline are better modeled as functions than as objects.  Changing to a functional paradigm also opens the possibility of us being able to run event-triggered functions on a third-party service (e.g., AWS Lambda) if that's desirable.  Above, all writing processing steps as functions is more in-line with what `dask` expects.
4. Leverage [Dask futures](https://docs.dask.org/en/stable/futures.html) and [Dask Slurm jobqueue](https://jobqueue.dask.org/en/latest/generated/dask_jobqueue.SLURMCluster.html) to create autoscaling pools of workers that can elastically expand/contract depending on how many exposures are taken in a session.  These workers would run on top of Slurm.  Underlying this goal is a core concern that Appion never fall too far behind when processing EM images in near-realtime.  Building around `dask-jobqueue` also gives us the option of making it easier to migrate our code to other job schedulers / orchestrators with minimal effort. 